Ulims 511 lesscommonissues (#25)
DiamondLightSource/ulims-json-schemas: docs/common_issues.md

2. Target the build: `npm run build-new path-to-current-dot-json`

>    or `npm run build-modified` if changes were made to a

Reviewer: Done

path. Build order is important for schema.

</details>

## Schema changed and $id number was not updated correctly

All changes to a schema should start with the $id
being edited in current.json to make at least
a point release. It helps ensure all schema files do
not change in uncontrolled ways which applications
cannot be expected to detect or support. Changing
the $id is not enforced, except in certain
cases like these. If you see any of the following it means
semantic version number in $id was wrong in some way.

<details>
<summary>check: "Requiredness of properties cannot be modified at: .required"</summary>

### Major release is needed

> This occurs whenever a property become required and there has
> been least one previous release. The property may have
> been optional in an earlier release. 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This occurs whenever a property become required and there has
been least one previous release. The property may have
been optional in an earlier release. 

**Fix:** In this case increment the major version, for example `1.1.6` becomes `2.0.0`.
```
I think this is all that is required, the rest I am hoping the user can work out if they are familiar enough with git. If they are not I think they are going to need help from someone who is anyhow!

Reviewer: Have incorporated this into change for next comment.

If the $id being fixed has been used as a $ref you should raise
a Github issue labelled "major" that is mentioned on a PR. To
find these do a search for the $id without semantic version and
look for $ref lines. Add the $id of any current.json file found
to the issue. Writers of those schema can decided when to do

> major release after your major release is merged to main.

Reviewer: Agree the placement here is not the best. Have moved to after the cleanup section and given it a heading. The reason I think its worth keeping is:

We had some feedback about how using $ref was useful but how to we mitigate or inform people using that schema as a $ref about the change. This sentence is about delegating this work from the person doing the PR review to the person making the schema change. 

Using the GH issues is probably the optimum way to inform writers and track if writers have updated their schemas, although using different label(s) might make it clearer.

At some future point when every schema has a clear team/owner maybe a GH action populates the issue so this sentence no longer applies.

> 
> The fix below uses a pretend schema that had
> release 1.1.6 merged to main. Months later an attempt
> to make a property required caused this issue.
> 
> 1. Edit the $id value so the major version is increased
>    by one. Reset minor and point numbers to 0. So, an $id
>    ending with 1.1.7 would become 2.0.0 to fix the issue.
> 
> 2. The next build will create new files and update the
>    latest links. Two tips: do cleanup before push to
>    github; start a new branch if cleanup 3 is needed and
>    follow the recommendation.
> 
> #### Cleanup is required before check will pass
> 
> The first cleanup assumes a point release in $id was the
> first value altered before other changes. Cleanup 2 and 3
> are required when that recommendation was not applied.
> 
>    * **Cleanup 1 (best case)** - Files built or committed with
> that release need deleting from branch. In example, files 1.1.7
> and 1.1.7.json were built and need deleting.
> 
>    * **Cleanup 2 (okay case)** The files (already merged to
> main) **must** be restored to the branch. In example, changes
> to files 1.1.6 and 1.1.6.json need undoing.
> 
>    * **Cleanup 3 (worse case)** when the $id being fixed has
> been used as a $ref and `build-new` command was not used. A
> git diff or commit log will show pairs of files that
> need restoring from main. Since
> each schema is seperate they will have different
> release numbers. Often quicker to start new branch.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Thanks, the succinct version reads much more clearly.

are now invalid. The build will add an example block
to every file released which uses the example block from
current.json or generates that block containing
required properties. Can also occur when editing
released json files manually.

Example number and message can vary. Example 0 should
always be the required properties. Example 1 is recommended
to contain properties most commonly used by applications.

<details>
<summary>check: "example 0 did not validate against schema: data should NOT have additional properties"</summary>

### Check typo or remove property from example

**Fix:** Edit current.json and confirm the property in the example
is defined by the schema. If not, remove from example or correct
spelling mistake. Rebuild and check will pass again.

</details>

## Other issues

<details>
<summary>check: "unexpected end of the stream within a flow collection"</summary>

### Restore the json file being referenced

The probable cause is a current.json file has a $ref and the
current.json or released files for that $ref has
been left as invalid JSON. For example, it was edited my
mistake whilst reviewing the properties being reused.

> **Fix:** Find the $id being referenced and restoring the required
> file or use IDE undo buffer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Fix:** Find the $id being referenced and restore the required
file to its original state.
```

Reviewer: Changed.
